Where were the champions of due process in November 2001 when the president first imposed draconian order?
So wrote a purpling libertarian kook on Nov. 15, 2001, the day after President Bush issued an executive order cracking down on suspected terrorist captives.
At the same time, most liberals - supposed advocates of the rights of the accused - did not want to appear to be insufficiently outraged at terrorists.
Only two months after the shock of 9/11, with polls showing strong public approval of Bush's harsh measures to protect us, these liberals turned out to be civil liberty's summer soldiers.
No senator from Massachusetts rose promptly to challenge Bush's draconian order, thereby to etch a profile in courage.
But one cabinet member reacted curiously.
Then Ashcroft Justice dug in its heels and the system stalled for years.
Military tribunals of aliens captured in Afghanistan were placed in abeyance while Justice claimed in court that the president has the authority to impose open-ended detention on citizens and noncitizens alike.
The right of a prisoner - even a noncitizen suspected of plotting to blow up a city - to take his case before some sort of judge has been reaffirmed.
The panicked Ashcroft and the hapless White House counsel, Alberto Gonzales, clearly misadvised the president; both should depart in a second term. Separation of powers lives, and we should extend habeas corpus to all four corners of the earth.
With military tribunals now tilted toward the prosecution, we should stop delaying and start prosecuting.
Liberals, in the aftermath of Abu Ghraib and now with Supreme Court restraints on executive power, are piling on.
It's safe; civil liberty is suddenly in vogue, at least until the next terror strike.
That's why the bosoms of Bush critics are now heaving in hypocritical hyperventilation.
But where were they on Nov. 15, 2001, when due process needed them?
In spider holes all their own.
There's a lesson, too, for conservatives and other hard-liners: Libertarians are not to be despised even when infuriatingly contrarian.
Remember our Jeremiah-like presence in your ranks on the privacy issue when you demand a national ID, or when you hamstring embryonic stem-cell research, or when you make a show of festooning the Constitution with a marriage amendment.
Why do I fear no libel suit from that wimpish professional hysteric, that antebellum Southern belle suffering the vapors, that aider of terrorists?
Because I'm him.
