Who Wants to Be a Martyr?
Ann Arbor, Mich.
As logical as the poverty-breeds-terrorism argument may seem, study after study shows that suicide attackers and their supporters are rarely ignorant or impoverished.
Nor are they crazed, cowardly, apathetic or asocial.
In the suicide bombing of a cafe in Tel Aviv last week that killed three bystanders, for instance, the bomber and the man accused of being his accomplice grew up in Britain, in relatively prosperous circumstances, and attended college.
The Princeton economist Alan Krueger and others released a study in 2002 comparing Lebanese Hezbollah militants who died in violent action to other Lebanese of the same age group.
He found that the Hezbollah members were less likely to come from poor homes and more likely to have a secondary school education.
Nasra Hassan, a Pakistani relief worker, interviewed nearly 250 aspiring Palestinian suicide bombers and their recruiters.
A 2001 poll by the nonprofit Palestinian Center for Policy and Survey Research indicated that Palestinian adults with 12 years or more of education are far more likely to support bomb attacks than those who cannot read.
Their motivation and commitment are evident in their willingness to sacrifice material and emotional comforts (families, jobs, physical security), to travel long distances and to pay their own way.
The body of research shows that over all, suicide terrorists tend not to have the attributes of the socially dysfunctional (fatherless, friendless, jobless).
Suicide attackers don't opt for paradise out of despair.
If they did, say Muslim clerics who countenance martyrdom for Allah but not personal suicide, their actions would be criminal and blasphemous.
A United Nations report indicated that as soon as the United States began building up for the Iraq invasion, Qaeda recruitment has picked up in 30 to 40 countries.
Recruiters for groups sponsoring terrorist acts tell researchers that volunteers are beating down the doors to join.
This allows terrorist agents to choose recruits who are intelligent, psychologically balanced and socially poised.
Candidates who mostly want virgins in paradise or money for their families are weeded out.
Those selected show patience and the ability to plan and execute in subtle, quiet ways that don't draw attention.
Al Qaeda, especially, is rarely in a hurry.
It can wait years and then strike when least expected.
It's the particular genius of the institutions like Al Qaeda, Hamas or Hezbollah that they are able to make otherwise well-adjusted people into human bombs.
Intense indoctrination, often lasting 18 months or more, causes recruits to identify emotionally with their terrorist cell, viewing it as a family for whom they are as willing to die as a mother for her child or a soldier for his buddies.
Brian Barber, a psychologist at the University of Tennessee, has interviewed some 900 young adults from Gaza and a comparison group of Bosnian Muslims who had also suffered through violence but had not become a source of suicide bombers.
The Bosnians had markedly weaker expressions of self-esteem and less hope for the future.
Faith was the largest difference: the Palestinians routinely invoked religion to invest personal trauma with social meaning, whereas the Bosnians did not consider religion significant to their life.
Like many of their counterparts in militant Islamic organizations in the region, they held normal, respectable jobs.
Like the best Madison Avenue advertisers, but to ghastlier effect, the charismatic leaders of terrorist groups turn ordinary desires for family and religion into cravings for what they're pitching.
How do we combat these masters of manipulation?
President Bush and many American politicans maintain that these groups and the people supporting them hate our democracy and freedoms.
But poll after poll of the Muslim world shows opinion strongly favoring America's forms of government, personal liberty and education.
A University of Michigan political scientist, Mark Tessler, finds Arab attitudes to American culture most favorable among young adults (regardless of their religious feeling) - the same population that recruiters single out.
Shows of military strength don't seem to dissuade terrorists: witness the failure of Israel's coercive efforts to end the string of Palestinian suicide bombings.
Rather, we need to show the Muslim world the side of our culture that they most respect.
Our engagement needs to involve interfaith initiatives, not ethnic profiling.
America must address grievances, such as the conflict in the Palestinian territories, whose daily images of violence engender global Muslim resentment.
Of course, this does not mean negotiating with terrorist groups over goals like Al Qaeda's quest to replace the Western-inspired system of nation-states with a global caliphate.
Osama bin Laden seeks no compromise.
But most of the people who sympathize with him just might.
