Nations have alliances, based on short-term strategic or economic interests.
But peoples have friendships, based on memories forged in times of trial.
These are the times that make and break friendships among peoples.
Start with a small-nation example.
Recently, as some of us had long urged, Latvia gained greater security when the U.S. lobbied for the Baltic nations to be brought under NATO's umbrella, despite Russian disapproval.
Under President Vaira Vike-Freiberga, Latvia has been an outspoken U.S. ally in the campaign to liberate Iraq.
But polls show a possible switch: Latvians, swept up in a wave of European pacifism, may send Americans a message by turning her out of office in June.
Democracy gives Latvians the freedom to ride that anti-U.S. wave - but should the Russian bear growl, Americans would be free to remember that message.
A more costly example of strains on friendship comes from Turkey, the ally that the U.S. hoped would lead the Muslim world to secular democracy.
After dickering about an entry fee, its new Islamist government refused the U.S. request for transit of our troops to start a northern front in Iraq.
Such cooperation would have shortened the war, saved lives and made Turkey a partner in extending freedom throughout the Middle East.
Then the Turks added insult to injury.
Turkey's military is threatening to grab northern Iraq's rich oil fields if the Kurds, recently ejected from the area by Saddam, dare to return to their stolen homes in Kirkuk.
And Israeli officials privately remind us of their quiet military relationship with Turkey, acting as if Ankara could still be relied upon.
But trust is shot.
With our ships laden with troops and tanks offshore, Turkey suddenly embraced neutralism.
Generations of Americans with memories of gallant Turks fighting alongside us in the Korean War - and saving refugees after the first gulf war - are being replaced by a generation that will remember the slamming of Turkey's door in our faces.
Some of those will be economic.
The U.S. will live up to its eight-year, $881 million contract with the French company Sodexho to provide domestic mess-hall meals to our Marine Corps (provided the soufflés don't fall).
And most U.S. consumers will not boycott French perfume or wine (though Australian merlot deserves a try).
But on future big deals that require a trustworthy ally, public opinion will drive public policy.
Right now, our Department of Energy is about to award a $30 million contract to design a system for its nuclear waste program in Yucca Mountain, Nev.
The consortium that wins will have the inside track on a billion-dollar deal transporting nuclear waste within the U.S. in years to come.
Three bids were invited by D.O.E.'s general contractor, Bechtel.
One is from an American-Japanese group; another is from an American-British combine; the third's from a mainly French, partly German nuclear conglomerate named Cogema.
Assuming the expertise and price are in the same ballpark, which outfit should not get this sensitive project financed by American taxpayers?
In light of President Jacques Chirac's torpedo into the Atlantic alliance, the question answers itself.
What cements strategic and economic alliances is public sentiment among peoples.
Britain and the U.S. are strategic allies, but Brits and Yanks are also genuine friends - free to disagree and compete, but when wartime chips are down and alliance has a cost, tightly together.
Peoples have memories that profoundly affect international ties.
Those memories are being forged right now, and Americans won't forget our friends.
