The right cleverly blames the deficit on George Bush's domestic spending, but tax cuts and tax evasion by the wealthy are the real culprits.
Even conservatives are starting to admit that George Bush isn't serious when he claims to be doing something about the exploding budget deficit.
At best - to borrow the already classic language of the State of the Union address - his administration is engaged in deficit reduction-related program activities.
But these admissions have been accompanied by an urban legend about what went wrong.
According to cleverly misleading reports from the Heritage Foundation and other like-minded sources, the deficit is growing because Mr. Bush isn't sufficiently conservative: he's allowing runaway growth in domestic spending.
This myth is intended to divert attention from the real culprit: sharply reduced tax collections, mainly from corporations and the wealthy.
Is domestic spending really exploding?
Think about it: farm subsidies aside, which domestic programs have received lavish budget increases over the last three years?
Don't be silly: No Child Left Behind is rapidly turning into a sick joke.
In fact, many government agencies are severely underfinanced.
For example, last month the head of the National Park Service's police admitted to reporters that her force faced serious budget and staff shortages, and was promptly suspended.
Why, then, do we face the prospect of huge deficits as far as the eye can see? Part of the answer is the surge in defense and homeland security spending.
The main reason for deficits, however, is that revenues have plunged.
Federal tax receipts as a share of national income are now at their lowest level since 1950.
Of course, most people don't feel that their taxes have fallen sharply.
And they're right: taxes that fall mainly on middle-income Americans, like the payroll tax, are still near historic highs.
This decline in tax collections from the wealthy is partly the result of the Bush tax cuts, which account for more than half of this year's projected deficit.
But it also probably reflects an epidemic of tax avoidance and evasion.
I was particularly struck by Mr. Johnston's description of the carefully staged Senate Finance Committee hearings in 1997-1998.
Only later, when the cameras were no longer rolling, did it become clear that the whole thing was a con.
And this was part of a larger con.
The ultimate goal is to slash government programs that help the poor and the middle class, and use the savings to cut taxes for the rich.
But the public would never vote for that.
So the right has used deceptive salesmanship to undermine tax enforcement and push through upper-income tax cuts.
And now that deficits have emerged, the right insists that they are the result of runaway spending, which must be curbed.
While this strategy has been remarkably successful so far, it also offers a big opportunity to the opposition.
So here's a test for the Democratic contenders: details of your proposals aside, which of you can do the best job explaining the ongoing budget con to the American people?
