The partisan wrangling of a presidential election and the capital's entrenched resistance to change will make swift action on the panel's recommendations unlikely.
But achieving consensus on adopting the commission's recommendations will almost certainly be much harder.
The likelihood of that happening, or of either party or the public embracing all the costly, complicated steps the commission believes are needed to make the country safer, is by no means assured - assuming all the recommendations even make sense.
The Pentagon and the C.I.A., Secretary of Homeland Security Tom Ridge and some in Congress already oppose the commission's call for a new national intelligence director to supplant some of the functions of the director of central intelligence.
Mr. Bush initially opposed creation of the commission, and acceded only under pressure from Congress and 9/11 families.
Only concerted action by Mr. Bush and Congressional leaders seems likely to produce big changes in the coming months.
The commission members themselves vowed to take no active role in the fall election, but instead to press for enactment of their recommendations through an aggressive public lobbying campaign.
At least one of them, James R. Thompson, the former Republican governor of Illinois, warned sharply of the practical and political consequences of inaction.
Blame, if there's blame, has to be spread all across the board because the American people never demanded more or better.
But now we've been warned, specifically warned.
And now we've been told by everyone, from the president of the United States on down, it's going to happen again.
Whether the 9/11 commission proposals will lead to such a sweeping change remains to be seen.
I tend to think not.
The biggest potential change is the melding of internal threats to security with international ones.
Doris Kearns Goodwin, the presidential biographer, said the Pearl Harbor and Sept. 11 investigations grappled with similar problems.
But absent an all-out feeling of urgency like the one that prevailed in World War II, it remains to be seen whether this is such a moment.
It may be tempting to imagine that no disaster quite like the hijackings of Sept. 11 could ever recur, but there are too many anecdotal examples of Swiss Army knives eluding airport metal detectors to inspire confidence that it could not.
What are the clues, which someday may seem so portentous, that are being missed today?
The commission's report quotes the historian Roberta Wohlstetter, whose 1962 study on Pearl Harbor remains highly regarded, on the handicaps of hindsight.
After the event, of course, a signal is always crystal clear; we can now see what disaster it was signaling since the disaster has occurred.
