The president and his deputies are challenged not only to renew their war against potential terrorists, but also to earn the confidence of those they protect.
Our lives have changed so much since Sept. 11, 2001.
We know that we may never again be free of the threat of terrorism.
It's been a tough adjustment for everyone, and the burden on President Bush is especially heavy.
Given the unprecedented circumstances and the costs of making a mistake, it's easy to understand why the administration has had so much trouble managing the way it informs the public about potential danger.
But after 17 months in which alerts blinked from yellow to orange and back a half-dozen times, the White House should be past its learning curve.
The events of this week showed starkly that the system is not working.
The administration was obviously right to warn the country that Al Qaeda had apparently studied financial institutions in three cities with the idea of a possible attack.
But the delivery of the message was confusing.
The color-coded threat chart doesn't serve the purpose for which it was invented, and Homeland Security Secretary Tom Ridge is hopeless as a public spokesman on this issue.
The Bush administration needs to come up with a method of communication that informs the public in a calm, clear way.
Perhaps most important, people need to be made totally confident that this critical matter is not being tangled up in the presidential campaign.
The alert system has always rested on a precarious balance.
Local officials must have up-to-date information about possible danger.
Private citizens need to know, too, so they can make informed choices and be on the lookout for trouble.
But it is possible to go overboard.
Ratcheting up the warning level creates huge costs for city and state governments.
And if Americans are warned too often, and too shrilly, they will become inured to terror alerts.
In the past, Mr. Ridge and others have talked ominously about intelligence that they have routinely described as the most alarming since 9/11, without providing details.
The terror alert was raised to orange for those sites in New York, Washington and New Jersey.
But things quickly lapsed into confusion.
For three days, officials at news conferences and background briefings said their concerns were based on new information, then old information, then back to new information.
Many people were scared out of their wits on Monday, cynical on Tuesday and befuddled by yesterday.
Mr. Bush should junk the color bars, which are now of use mostly to late-night comedians.
Ordinary people have no way of calibrating their lives to the color ladder.
It does them no good to be told to be scared, more scared or really scared, especially when they are also being told to act as if nothing's wrong.
Unless the government is prepared to tell people to stay home from work, there's no reason to keep lighting the terror lamps.
What we need is information that we can use, not another shot of adrenaline.
We would have been happy last weekend if a senior official more adept than Mr. Ridge had called a news conference to say what the government knew and what defensive measures had been taken.
Later that day, and on the next day and the day after, other officials spoke off the record, providing additional information that made the situation seem much more complicated.
There's a practical aspect to the terror alerts that the administration must address to demonstrate its own commitment.
The higher alert levels require local governments to take enormously expensive actions, for which Washington is not paying its share.
The Homeland Security Department has made it clear that New York City is the spot that comes up most frequently in terrorism-related intelligence, yet money continues to be doled out in a manner that has much more to do with elections than genuine danger.
It's shocking that Washington has not followed through on its own information by underwriting the protections cities need to stay safe.
Finally, there is the matter of politics.
The Bush administration expressed outrage at the suggestion that there could be any politics behind any of its warnings, but the president has some history to overcome on this issue.
There is nothing more important for Mr. Bush to do every day until Nov. 2 than to make it clear that he would never hype a terror alert to help his re-election chances.
It is a challenge complicated by the fact that he is running on his record against terrorism and is using images of 9/11 and the threat of more attacks to promote his candidacy.
The president's credibility on national security issues was gravely wounded by the way he misled Americans, intentionally or not, about the reasons for invading Iraq - including the suggestion that the war was part of the campaign against Al Qaeda.
Some of the past terror alerts have seemed aimless and happened when the Bush administration would have benefited from a change in the political conversation.
It's hard to write that off as an offhand comment.
If Mr. Ridge is to continue in this role, he must stay out of the election; using him as a campaign surrogate would be disastrous for public confidence.
The administration should also stop dropping dark hints about Al Qaeda's having election-related motives to attack, as if a vote against the current president were appeasement.
Americans are stone-cold serious when it comes to potential terror attacks - there is no need to worry about making them pay attention.
We have learned since Sept. 11, 2001, to value every day in which nothing terrible happens as a gift and an opportunity.
The Bush administration has been given the same blessing.
Every morning the president and his deputies are challenged not only to renew their war against potential terrorists, but also to earn the confidence of the people they aim to protect.
