Saddam Hussein has long been an obsession for the world.
When he comes to trial, we may finally find out who he was.
Saddam Hussein has long been an obsession for the world, and particularly the United States.
Yet Iraq was so cut off from the outside that it was impossible for anyone - including, it seems, American intelligence officials - to get a clear picture of who he really was.
We got a series of vivid but inconsistent portraits, colored to fit various political agendas.
Now that the real man is under interrogation, we hope a single realistic version will emerge.
George W. Bush's Saddam Hussein was both vicious and efficient - a combination that made him a clear and imminent threat to international security.
He not only had the will to harm his neighbors and the United States, he had the means.
He was rapidly expanding an arsenal of biological and chemical weapons while steadily moving closer to becoming a nuclear power.
He was so clever and well organized that he might surprise the world with nuclear weapons at any time.
And although his regime was a secular one, it was so single-minded in its anti-Americanism that it was undoubtedly working with the radical Islamist terrorists of Al Qaeda.
After the invasion and occupation of Iraq, it seemed that everyone might have given him too much credit.
Pictures of the Hussein family's multiple palaces showed each one looking more like a bad Las Vegas hotel suite than the last.
The country was a mess, with crumbling infrastructure even in the critical oil fields.
No weapons of mass destruction turned up, and some Iraqi science officials claimed that since the first gulf war in 1991, the fearsome arsenal had existed only in the imagination of the West, and perhaps of the tyrant himself.
But as the increasingly violent weeks of occupation dragged on, people began wondering whether Mr. Hussein was pursuing a new, clever strategy.
Had the United States been lured into Iraq to founder like Napoleon in Russia, while the Republican Guard melted into the landscape to fight a guerrilla war under the direction of the missing dictator?
The bedraggled man pulled out of a hole near Tikrit certainly did not look like a military genius.
Interrogators will certainly be trying to figure out whether weapons of mass destruction were being produced and stockpiled.
They may discover that the first Bush administration was right in believing that having been thoroughly defeated in 1991 and kept under an international embargo, Mr. Hussein no longer posed a major military threat.
The one thing on which everyone now agrees is that this man caused the deaths of hundreds of thousands of his own people and kept most of the rest in fear and misery.
