In a cold-war-style rift, President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia and the West have diametrically opposed views on Ukraine's election.
MOSCOW, Nov. 23 - Not since NATO's war in Kosovo, or perhaps the cold war itself, have the political differences between Russia and the West appeared so starkly as they have in Ukraine's disputed presidential election.
The returns of the Sunday vote showed a victory for his candidate, whose opponent disputes the results.
The collapse of the Soviet bloc was supposed to erase the old divisions of Europe.
For a time, even the words East and West sounded faintly anachronistic as the former Soviet republics and satellites of Eastern Europe embraced democracy, however hesitantly.
Increasingly, a new division has become apparent, defined not by competing political ideologies but by competing economic and political interests and contradictory ideas about what democracy represents.
In Mr. Putin's Russia, the use of government resources on behalf of loyal candidates or the state's control over the media - both factors criticized by international observers in Ukraine - are accepted tools of politics.
So is wielding the president's personal prestige, carefully preserved on those state channels, to influence elections, even those outside the country's borders.
Mr. Putin stepped on accepted diplomatic protocol by campaigning so overtly on Mr. Yanukovich's behalf, playing host to him in Moscow and visiting Ukraine before each round in the election.
Imagine the reaction if President Vicente Fox of Mexico had hit the campaign trail for President Bush, or the reverse.
The Russian president trampled on protocol altogether on Monday by congratulating Mr. Yanukovich on a victory that his opponent had not yet conceded and that even his patron, President Leonid D. Kuchma, still had not acknowledged as official.
Joining Mr. Putin on Tuesday in offering congratulations was President Aleksandr G. Lukashenko of Belarus, the man often called the last dictator of Europe.
It was inevitable that Ukraine would become a battleground.
The candidates offered starkly divergent visions for the country's future.
Mr. Yanukovich promised to carry out Mr. Kuchma's legacy, while deepening relations with Russia.
Mr. Yushchenko fashioned himself as a liberal, democratic reformer eager to break the power of the state as it turns to Europe.
Sergei A. Markov, director of the Institute for Political Studies in Moscow, who was among the many Russian advisers to Mr. Yanukovich's campaign, said in an interview that the election was not a struggle over ideas as much as influence.
Mr. Putin has invested considerable effort in drawing Russia, Belarus, Ukraine and Kazakhstan into an economic and political union.
Mr. Markov dismissed Western criticism of the election, saying Mr. Yanukovich had won fairly.
Europe and the United States protested, he said, only because their favorite lost.
Increasingly, though, Russia and the West seem to be talking past each other.
It only intensified Tuesday.
