Cutting our military forces in Germany is a bad idea at a time when the U.S. is struggling to rebuild relations with NATO.
The Pentagon is proposing sharp cuts in U.S. forces in Germany, which for more than half a century has been America's biggest military outpost in Europe.
It's a bad idea, particularly at a time when the United States is struggling to rebuild its relations with its NATO allies.
Washington is hoping to cut its military presence in Germany &#8212; a little more than 70,000 soldiers &#8212; roughly in half.
Two heavy divisions now based there, and the soldiers' families, would return to the United States.
They would be replaced by a much smaller light combat brigade, while other units would be rotated in and out, at considerable cost, for short-term exercises.
The Air Force is also thinking of moving some of its F-16 fighter jets from Germany to Turkey, where they would be closer to Middle East trouble spots but subject to restrictions by the host government.
Recent history has only reinforced how important that relationship is to the United States.
NATO is the only alliance capable of sharing some of the global military burdens that have now overstretched America's ground forces.
Washington denies that.
But the Pentagon does seem to have a growing preference for stationing troops either at home or on the territories of allies ready to embrace President Bush's notions of unilateral preventive war.
Despite its criticisms of the Iraq war, Germany imposed no restrictions on the use of American bases during that conflict.
It continues to deploy thousands of German soldiers to protect those bases, freeing American troops for other uses.
Berlin also contributes $1 billion a year to the bases' support.
Economically, the plan to bring the soldiers home is a loser.
The German bases have other advantages as well.
They are much closer to the Middle East and Central Asia than bases in the United States and are in a safe country with a stable democracy and the modern conveniences that make life easier for troops on long tours overseas.
Soldiers stationed there have access to a variety of training exercises and can enjoy down time with their families.
The American military hospital at Ramstein Air Base, the largest outside the United States, provides specialized care for battlefield casualties from Iraq and Afghanistan as it did for those from Bosnia, Kosovo and the U.S.S. Cole.
There is nothing sacrosanct about maintaining particular Army divisions in Germany.
The role of American military forces there has evolved considerably over the decades &#8212; from occupying a defeated enemy to deterring Warsaw Pact aggression to symbolizing Washington's post-cold-war commitment to remain militarily engaged in Europe.
Along the way, the size of the American presence has evolved as well.
In the nearly 15 years since the Berlin Wall fell, United States force levels in Germany have dropped by roughly 75 percent.
Further reductions should not be ruled out.
But the Pentagon's current plans are unduly drastic, unfortunately timed and suspiciously motivated.
