What you now see unfolding before your eyes is the last few minutes of a game of geopolitical chicken between George Bush and Saddam Hussein.
It's called: Whose Coalition Will Break First?
Let's start with Saddam.
Surely the funniest line of the week was his spokesman's explanation of why Iraqi TV was not showing Saddam's men destroying his Al Samoud missiles, as the U.N. had demanded.
The Iraqi spokesman said it was because if the Iraqi people saw this, they would be so angry at the U.N. there's just no telling what they might do. Right, and if my grandmother had wheels, she'd be a bus.
The reason Saddam is not showing this to his people is because it makes him look weak, and his whole regime depends on his maintaining a facade of invincibility.
Giving into the demands of the bespectacled Hans Blix is not a healthy thing for Saddam.
It's like the Godfather taking up knitting.
It evinces weakness, and Saddam rules by fear.
The minute he looks less ferocious, he is in danger from those around him.
This is not Norway.
But Mr. Bush also has some dangerous blind spots.
The Turkish Parliament's vote against allowing U.S. troops to use Turkish bases is stunning when you consider that the Bush team had offered the Turks a dream package - $6 billion in aid and new weapons, and veto power over the future of Iraq's Kurds.
But there is something admirable about the Turkish democracy's refusing to be bribed into a war its people don't want.
It would be shameful for us to force the Turks to vote again - considering that their Parliament gave this war more thought than the U.S. Congress.
Indeed, our own Congress is being asked to suspend belief yet again and accept Mr. Bush's promises that this war, soaring oil prices and a weakening dollar won't bust the budget even more than his tax cuts already have.
And when the respected U.S. Army chief of staff wisely cautioned that stabilizing Iraq could require some 200,000 troops, the Bush team told us to ignore him, too.
But it's also probably too late.
For Mr. Bush and for the U.S., the costs of leaving Saddam in place - having made Washington blink and abandon its allies in the region - would be enormous.
No, I wouldn't have - but here is where we've been put.
So those who argue against the war have to admit that doing nothing now would mean perpetuating Saddam's tyranny and giving succor to all dictators.
We could still get lucky and find that Mr. Bush's decision to begin this game of chicken by throwing away his steering wheel leads Saddam to cave or quit.
France, Russia and China could say they bought time, and the U.S. could present Saddam with a united front - which is the only threat that might get him to comply without a war.
Otherwise, brace yourself for the crash and hope for the best - because we're all in the back seat.
