The long and ugly tradition of suppressing the black vote is alive and thriving in Florida.
The big story out of Florida over the weekend was the tragic devastation caused by Hurricane Charley.
But there's another story from Florida that deserves our attention.
The officers, from the Florida Department of Law Enforcement, which reports to Gov.
Jeb Bush, say they are investigating allegations of voter fraud that came up during the Orlando mayoral election in March.
Officials refused to discuss details of the investigation, other than to say that absentee ballots are involved.
They said they had no idea when the investigation might end, and acknowledged that it may continue right through the presidential election.
The state police officers, armed and in plain clothes, have questioned dozens of voters in their homes.
Some of those questioned have been volunteers in get-out-the-vote campaigns.
I asked Mr. Morales in a telephone conversation to tell me what criminal activity had taken place.
I asked if all the people interrogated were black.
It became a tradition that continues in many places, including Florida, today.
Not surprisingly, many of the elderly black voters who found themselves face to face with state police officers in Orlando are members of the Orlando League of Voters, which has been very successful in mobilizing the city's black vote.
The president of the Orlando League of Voters is Ezzie Thomas, who is 73 years old.
With his demonstrated ability to deliver the black vote in Orlando, Mr. Thomas is a tempting target for supporters of George W. Bush in a state in which the black vote may well spell the difference between victory and defeat.
The vile smell of voter suppression is all over this so-called investigation by the Florida Department of Law Enforcement.
They are elderly women mostly.
They get paid like $100 for four or five months' work, just to offset things like the cost of their gas.
They see this political activity as an important contribution to their community.
Now, said Mr. Egan, the fear generated by state police officers going into people's homes as part of an ongoing criminal investigation related to voting is threatening to undo much of the good work of the league.
Florida is a state that's very much in play in the presidential election, with some polls showing John Kerry in the lead.
A heavy-handed state police investigation that throws a blanket of fear over thousands of black voters can only help President Bush.
The long and ugly tradition of suppressing the black vote is alive and thriving in the Sunshine State.
