Who's Losing Iraq?
Karl Rove has got to be nervous.
Now, General Rove will have to watch Democratic candidates focus on war.
We're getting into very volatile territory in the Middle East.
As Paul Bremer admitted last week, the cost of the Iraq adventure is going to be spectacular: $2 billion for electrical demands and $16 billion to deliver clean water.
We're losing one or two American soldiers every day.
There is no government!
We'd rather have Saddam than this!
You can't conduct a great historical experiment in a petty and bickering frame of mind. The agencies of the Bush administration are behaving like high school cliques.
The policy in Iraq is paralyzed almost to the point of nonexistence, stalled by spats between the internationalists and unilateralists, with the national security director, Condoleezza Rice, abnegating her job as policy referee.
The State Department will have to stop sulking and being in denial about the Pentagon running the show in Iraq.
And the Pentagon will have to stop being dogmatic, clinging to the quixotic notion that it only wants to succeed with its streamlined force and its trompe l'oeil coalition.
Rummy has to accept the magnitude of the task and give up running the Department of Defense the way a misanthropic accountant would.
Big deeds need big spirits.
You can't have a Marshall Plan and a tax cut at the same time.
It has also now become radiantly clear that we have to drag Dick Cheney out of the dark and smog.
Less Hobbes, more Locke.
We can now see the disturbing results of all the decisions Mr. Cheney made in secret meetings.
Favoritism to energy pals led to last week's insane decision to gut part of the Clean Air Act and allow power plants, refineries and other industrial sites to belch pollutants.
Another Bush-Cheney energy crony is Anthony Alexander of Ohio's FirstEnergy Corporation, which helped trigger the blackout after failing to upgrade its transmission system properly since deregulation.
He was a Bush Pioneer, having raised at least $100,000 for the campaign.
All this, and high gas prices, too?
When he wasn't meeting secretly with energy lobbyists, Mr. Cheney was meeting secretly with Iraqi exiles.
According to The Los Angeles Times, U.S. and allied intelligence agencies are investigating to see if they were duped by Iraqi defectors giving bogus information to mislead the West before the war.
