Who's Accountable?
It's outrageous that nobody is being held accountable for misleading the nation into war.
The Bush and Blair administrations are trying to silence critics - many of them current or former intelligence analysts - who say that they exaggerated the threat from Iraq.
Last week a Blair official accused Britain's intelligence agencies of plotting against the government.
Yet dishonest salesmanship has been the hallmark of the Bush administration's approach to domestic policy.
And it has become increasingly clear that the selling of the war with Iraq was no different.
Not only was there no good evidence: according to The New York Times, captured leaders of Al Qaeda explicitly told the C.I.A. that they had not been working with Saddam.
I don't know whether those trailers were intended to produce bioweapons or merely to inflate balloons, as the Iraqis claim - a claim supported by a number of outside experts.
We can guess how Mr. Bush came to make that statement.
The first teams of analysts told administration officials what they wanted to hear, doubts were brushed aside, and officials then made public pronouncements greatly overstating even what the analysts had said.
A similar process of cherry-picking, of choosing and exaggerating intelligence that suited the administration's preconceptions, unfolded over the issue of W.M.D.'s before the war.
Most intelligence professionals believed that Saddam had some biological and chemical weapons, but they did not believe that these posed any imminent threat.
According to the newspaper The Independent, a March 2002 report by Britain's Joint Intelligence Committee found no evidence that Saddam posed a significantly greater threat than in 1991.
But such conclusions weren't acceptable.
British intelligence officials were so concerned that, The Independent reports, they kept detailed records of the process.
But the Bush administration found scraps of intelligence suiting its agenda, and officials began making strong pronouncements.
One last point: the Bush administration's determination to see what it wanted to see led not just to a gross exaggeration of the threat Iraq posed, but to a severe underestimation of the problems of postwar occupation.
Now a force of 150,000 is stretched thin, facing increasingly frequent guerrilla attacks, and a senior officer told The Washington Post that it might be two years before an Iraqi government takes over.
I'll tell you what's outrageous.
It's not the fact that people are criticizing the administration; it's the fact that nobody is being held accountable for misleading the nation into war.
