The language of Iraqi politics has been so degraded that it provides no framework for opposition, let alone an alternative regime.
Every journalist abroad wants to tell his readers at home two contradictory things.
But if you think that by knowing that, you know them, you are mistaken.
Yet that is not necessarily what I found.
Since the start of the current American-led war, it has been widely noted that celebration by Iraqis has been muted.
The most common explanation is that Iraqis are afraid - both of government goon squads and of the possibility that we will withdraw prematurely, leaving them at the mercy of whoever comes next.
This is clearly true.
But what I found during my visits is that many Iraqis, perhaps a majority, seemed to believe in and identify with Mr. Hussein.
While they feared their ruthless leader, what they feared even more was life without him.
I know this seems unfathomable.
How could any people support a leader of such cruelty and megalomania?
Don't Iraqis, like other people, thirst for freedom?
Maybe, but political freedom is such a foreign concept that most Iraqis have no context in which to thirst for it. The contours of debate within Iraq are so narrow that there is no meaningful way to discuss negative feelings about Mr. Hussein.
Indeed, the language of Iraqi politics has been so degraded that it provides no framework for opposition, let alone for what might be imagined as an alternative.
This is not to say that Iraqis would not want to live one day in an honest, decent, free society.
Tell them the same country has decided to spend billions and risk its young people to liberate them, and they will probably have no idea of what you might be talking about.
Wherever I went during my visits to Iraq, often without a government minder at my side, I kept finding people who said Iraq's problem was the United States, not Mr. Hussein.
Washington was responsible for sanctions, and Americans clearly feared a strong, independent Arab power, they said.
That's why the United States opposed Mr. Hussein.
I also found the opposite: former government officials and professors, whose sadly elegant homes on the Tigris River were crumbling as their fixed salaries grew worthless.
They despised what had become of their once-cosmopolitan lives, and they blamed Iraq's leadership more than Washington's.
An art gallery owner I met, a woman with impeccable English, said that without Mr. Hussein, factions within the Kurds and Shiites would be at each other's throats, and that fundamentalists would take over the government.
She cited the modernization of roads, the economy and education, and the progress made by women under him.
Iraq had a bloody history, she said, and without someone strong, even brutal, at the top, it would descend into chaos.
Everybody abroad dismissed it, but my sense was that an honest poll would still have given him a victory - with 55 or 60 percent.
Part of the explanation is the nature of totalitarianism: millions of Soviets wept when Stalin died.
Part of it is the nature of being held hostage.
Iraq is a nation of Elizabeth Smarts.
Regardless of how any of us feel about our political leaders, we do not worship them, nor do we consider it appropriate to do so.
Iraq, on the other hand, is immersed in a cult of personality, and it is not the only Arab country where that is true.
Nearly every state in the region develops what is to us a bizarre and harmful devotion to its ruler, hanging his portrait on every corner and considering criticism of him an insult to the entire nation.
And this extends beyond the state's own borders.
One can understand why Iraqis are afraid to criticize Mr. Hussein, but how to explain why Egyptians, Bahrainis and Palestinians have not made him the special target of contempt?
Who has killed more Muslims in the modern world than Mr. Hussein?
Yet there is no Arab literature devoted to his misdeeds.
All of this suggests that when the war is won, engaging the Iraqi nation in the project of building an open society could prove extremely challenging.
Public service has no meaning in Iraq.
Each layer of bureaucracy lords its power over the one below it.
This does not mean we shouldn't try.
But we must do so with eyes open to the nature of the task.
If there is a ray of hope, it comes perhaps from the fact that one of the most clear-minded critics of Arab and Iraqi politics over the past 20 years - Kanan Makiya - is also among the strongest advocates of this war.
Mr. Makiya, an Iraqi dissident, has been unflinching in his criticism but remarkably determined as he looks ahead.
And indeed, it may be true that once the dictator is gone, his support will vanish with him.
Mr. Makiya wants a federal, demilitarized, democratic Iraq.
That makes sense.
Will Iraqis get it? I hope so.
But very little from my time there gives me cause for optimism.
