The John-John ticket might seem a a little too eager to please, but not when the competition is two oilmen who radiate negativity, overeagerness is a relief.
WASHINGTON - I'm happy for John Kerry.
Long-faced guy, as some Bushies refer to him, finally found somebody to stand at the podium and give him an adoring look.
Heaven knows Teresa was never going to do it. Her attention rarely seems to light on her husband when she's at a microphone with him.
It's sort of mesmerizing, really.
The white-columned colonial mansion and swimming pool were out of sight and bales of hay strategically placed to give a populist touch.
She doesn't gaze like Nancy or glare like Lee Hart or look appraisingly at her husband like Elizabeth Edwards.
She doesn't always seem to notice he's there.
When Mr. Kerry moves in for a nuzzle or a kiss, she sometimes makes a little face.
She siphons attention from a husband who has a hard enough time getting it. Yesterday, she distracted the audience when she seemed to be trying to get young Jack Edwards to stop sucking his thumb.
Sometimes she'll laugh and smile in inappropriate places - she once chuckled while her husband talked about curbing tax breaks for the rich.
Teresa has the air, as Chris Matthews noted, of an old-fashioned European movie star.
Her detachment seems all the more appealing now that John Kerry can't stop patting and grabbing his new pup, John Edwards.
Mr. Edwards awkwardly reciprocates, sliding his arm around the big guy's torso.
Ordinarily, the John-John ticket might seem a bit off-putting - a little too glib, a little too ingratiating, a little too forced, a little too expedient, a little too eager to please.
But when the competition is two oilmen who don't seem to want to please anybody but Halliburton and the Saudis - ask Pat Leahy, Old Europe and the 9/11 panel - overeagerness is a relief.
It's hilarious that the Republicans are trying to paint their ticket as the more optimistic one.
Mr. Cheney and Mr. Bush radiate negativity, even as Mr. Edwards and his photogenic blond kids glow for the cameras.
Dick Cheney glowers for the camera, a Dr. No with a dark vision that has resulted in a gigantic global mess.
The Breck Girl is already getting under the Boy King's thin skin.
President Bush should have easily knocked a question about Mr. Edwards - nicknamed the Breck Girl by Bush officials - out of the park.
But he whiffed.
Indeed, he already is.
