Reality to George W. Bush is not about facts, but about higher meta-truths.
Whenever I say that President Bush isn't a liar, Democrats hurl thunderbolts at me. And when I say Mr. Bush isn't truthful, Republicans erupt like Mount St. Helens.
So what do I mean?
Let me offer an example - not from Iraq but from Mr. Bush's autobiography.
Dad had spent the day preparing for a debate with Michael Dukakis.
Unfortunately, Barbara lost her sleeping companion, Spikey, her favorite stuffed dog.
Finally, he did, and Barbara slept soundly.
It's a heartwarming tale of family values.
And while it's not malicious enough to count as a lie, it's laced with falsehoods.
For starters, the episode occurred when the girls were five and a half, in 1987, a year before the presidential debate.
Anyway, little Barbara had already fallen asleep with another stuffed animal.
Spikey turned up the next day behind the curtains.
Well, frankly, no one has ever impugned Millie's word.
And Millie has witnesses.
The current president's hyped version of the incident reflects his casual relationship with truth.
Like President Ronald Reagan, reality to him is not about facts, but about higher meta-truths: Mom and Dad are loving grandparents, Saddam Hussein is an evil man, and so on.
We all do this to some extent, of course, discounting data points that don't fit our preconceptions.
Yet most liberals have not revised their view that Mr. Bush is a nitwit.
In fact, I'm convinced that Mr. Bush is not only smarter, but also a better man than his critics believe.
Most important, he's not a panderer.
While Mr. Kerry zigs and zags on trade and Middle East policy, Mr. Bush has a core of values and provides genuine leadership (typically, I believe, in the wrong direction, by trying to reshape America and the world according to a far-right agenda).
One example is Mr. Bush's determination since 9/11 to add to the U.S. Strategic Petroleum Reserve, even though this pushes up gasoline prices.
Mr. Bush's approach is foolish economically, and it is crazy politically.
Yet his grim willingness to raise gas prices during his re-election campaign underscores a solidity of character and convictions.
But that's also the problem with his administration: his convictions are so solid that they're inflexible and utterly impervious to reality.
I think Mr. Bush considered himself truthful, even when he wasn't factual.
If Mr. Bush were a private citizen, I would admire his tenacity, just as I respect Barry Goldwater, Red Sox fans and Flat-Earthers.
But for a president, I wish we had a clear-eyed thinker who understood the difference between Osama bin Laden and Saddam Hussein, or between a stuffed dog and a stuffed cat.
