The history of bold visions for human spaceflight is littered with more failures, delays and cost overruns than clear successes.
The fates have been particularly unkind to Republican presidents, who twice made their ambitious ventures in election years.
The troubles with grand White House plans began in January 1972 when President Richard M. Nixon proposed that the nation embark on a new kind of spaceship, reusable and known as the shuttle.
Instead, the shuttles turned out to be roughly 10 times as costly and prone to catastrophic failure.
In January 1984, President Ronald Reagan, evoking the spirit of President John F. Kennedy's rally to the Moon, proposed that the United States build a permanently manned space station within a decade.
The cost estimate was $8 billion.
In fact, the feat took 16 years and price estimates soared to between $30 billion and $100 billion.
He set the Mars goal for 2019 but the effort soon fizzled when the cost estimates hit $400 billion.
Yesterday, Mr. Bush said his new space mission could succeed with fairly modest increases: $1 billion in new money and $11 billion scavenged from existing NASA programs.
John Bahcall, a physicist at the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, N.J., who has long advised NASA, said Mr. Bush's plan was inspirational because it was so daunting.
But other space experts, looking to lessons of history, warned of failure.
Howard E. McCurdy, a space historian at American University, said that most presidential initiatives went sailing off course because of insufficient discipline and seriousness.
The moral of the story, he added, is that success requires what Presidents Kennedy and Lyndon B. Johnson achieved: a restructuring of the federal space agency into a superstar of technical advance and savvy management.
The nation's winged spaceships would stop flying around 2010, the same time work is expected to end on the International Space Station, Mr. Bush said.
Astronauts would land on the Moon by 2015 and, after using it as a training station, head for Mars sometime later.
He called on NASA to develop rockets and technologies to achieve the goals.
This is feasible historically.
Hans Mark, a former chancellor of the University of Texas who was NASA's deputy director in 1984 and the Reagan administration's architect of the space station plan, expressed skepticism for a different reason.
A prerequisite for success for any space vision, he said, is that its goals have to be near enough to excite people and form solid political constituencies.
Any space plan whose culmination is more than a decade away is probably doomed to failure, he said, as was the first President Bush's plan.
It was, he said, just election-year grandstanding, and dangerous at that.
