As they testified before the 9/11 panel, officials from the current and former administrations often agreed with each other, regardless of party.
Yes, election-year politics crackled in the air.
Yes, Republican panel members prodded and scolded Bill Clinton's cabinet members, and Democrats did the same to President Bush's.
But the secretaries themselves often agreed with one other, regardless of party, and their public presence was a powerful sign that terrorism transcends politics - and that blame abounds for failing to fully face the threat in time.
Madeleine K. Albright and Donald H. Rumsfeld cannot often be accused of seeing eye to eye.
But the former secretary of state and the current secretary of defense agreed that there was limited public or international support for large-scale military action against Al Qaeda and the Taliban before Sept. 11.
Dr. Albright dryly noted that Mr. Clinton faced criticism as moving too rashly to bomb Qaeda training camps after the bombing of American embassies in East Africa in 1998, days after he confessed to lying about his affair with an intern.
All the elaborate rituals of courtesy could not disguise the gravity of the occasion.
Dr. Albright responded that the Clinton administration had moved to freeze assets, apply diplomatic pressure and order airstrikes.
But usually after the fact.
Tuesday's hearing made it clear that the threat of terrorism remains ever present.
For the Clinton administration officials, this week's hearings were a chance to defend actions - or lapses - that have already passed into history.
For the Bush appointees, the stakes were a good deal higher: They hope to keep making history for another four years.
A year to the day after the capture of Pfc.
Jessica Lynch in Iraq, cable television screens were filled not so much with images of combat as with recrimination and regret - a blend that poses delicate challenges for Mr. Bush.
There's an enormous amount of tension and pent-up passions and political rivalry.
But, thank God, we have these ritual forms.
For relatives of the Sept. 11 victims, the hearing was a chance, finally, to get the public attention that they believe the commission's work has long lacked.
They came with still-broken hearts and photographs of the dead, seeking answers they did not quite expect to receive.
Paul D. Wolfowitz, the deputy defense secretary, who was seated next to Mr. Rumsfeld, also wore a pained expression for much of the afternoon.
He rejected any suggestion that the Bush administration had taken too long - until September 2001 - to devise a plan for dealing with Al Qaeda and the Taliban.
The commission was created by Congress with Mr. Bush's reluctant assent and is scheduled to conclude its business this summer.
But Tuesday's hearing was a sign that Mr. Bush ought to be anticipating what comes next.
He already has his hands full with the continued fighting in Iraq, and the threat of more attacks at home, and the history of past panels might give him pause.
