Unable to cope with the fanaticism at the fringes of the Muslim world, we point our blame elsewhere.
We've been forced to witness the massacre of innocents.
In New York, Madrid, Moscow, Tel Aviv, Baghdad and Bali, we have seen thousands of people destroyed while going about the daily activities of life.
We've been forced to endure the massacre of children.
Whether it's teenagers outside an Israeli disco or students in Beslan, Russia, we've seen kids singled out as special targets.
We should by now have become used to the death cult that is thriving at the fringes of the Muslim world.
This is the cult that sent waves of defenseless children to be mowed down on the battlefields of the Iran-Iraq war, that trains kindergartners to become bombs, that fetishizes death, that sends people off joyfully to commit mass murder.
This cult attaches itself to a political cause but parasitically strangles it. The death cult has strangled the dream of a Palestinian state.
The suicide bombers have not brought peace to Palestine; they've brought reprisals.
The car bombers are not pushing the U.S. out of Iraq; they're forcing us to stay longer.
The death cult is now strangling the Chechen cause, and will bring not independence but blood.
But that's the idea.
Because the death cult is not really about the cause it purports to serve.
It's about the sheer pleasure of killing and dying.
It's about massacring people while in a state of spiritual loftiness.
It's about experiencing the total freedom of barbarism - freedom even from human nature, which says, Love children, and Love life.
It's about the joy of sadism and suicide.
We should be used to this pathological mass movement by now.
We should be able to talk about such things.
Yet when you look at the Western reaction to the Beslan massacres, you see people quick to divert their attention away from the core horror of this act, as if to say: We don't want to stare into this abyss.
We don't want to acknowledge those parts of human nature that were on display in Beslan.
Something here, if thought about too deeply, undermines the categories we use to live our lives, undermines our faith in the essential goodness of human beings.
Three years after Sept. 11, too many people have become experts at averting their eyes.
If you look at the editorials and public pronouncements made in response to Beslan, you see that they glide over the perpetrators of this act and search for more conventional, more easily comprehensible targets for their rage.
The Boston Globe editorial, which was typical of the American journalistic response, made two quick references to the barbarity of the terrorists, but then quickly veered off with long passages condemning Putin and various Russian policy errors.
It wasn't a tragedy.
It was a carefully planned mass murder operation.
And it wasn't Russian authorities who stuffed basketball nets with explosives and shot children in the back as they tried to run away.
Whatever horrors the Russians have perpetrated upon the Chechens, whatever their ineptitude in responding to the attack, the essential nature of this act was in the act itself.
It was the fact that a team of human beings could go into a school, live with hundreds of children for a few days, look them in the eyes and hear their cries, and then blow them up.
Dissertations will be written about the euphemisms the media used to describe these murderers.
Three years after Sept. 11, many are still apparently unable to talk about this evil.
They still try to rationalize terror.
What drives the terrorists to do this?
What are they trying to achieve?
This death cult has no reason and is beyond negotiation.
This is what makes it so frightening.
This is what causes so many to engage in a sort of mental diversion.
They don't want to confront this horror.
So they rush off in search of more comprehensible things to hate.
