We ignored the warnings about the possibility of an enormous blackout.
Now we're left wondering what might happen if terrorists link their madness to our power vulnerabilities.
The blackout that interrupted my reading showed once again how suddenly we can be thrown out of our daily routine and into a widespread emergency.
It seemed that almost everyone had a cellphone and none of them were working.
That freaked out a lot of people.
Cellphones have emerged as the lifelines of the 21st century, the quintessential emergency gadget.
It's the one device that's supposed to work when everything else is falling apart.
There were already reports circulating (true, as it turned out) that the blackout extended all the way into Canada and as far west as Ohio.
A woman asked a reporter if he thought the entire nation was under attack.
The reporter said no, he thought it was just a blackout, like the ones in 1965 and 1977.
But bigger, maybe.
The night would bring a reacquaintance with deep silence and flickering shadows and the comfort of listening to baseball on a battery-operated radio.
Last week's enormous, cascading blackout should never have occurred.
We knew the electrical grid was in sorry shape and the experiences of 1965 and 1977 were still in our collective memory.
The experts told us again and again to expect a breakdown.
We ignored the warnings, which is what we always do with warnings, and we paid a terrible price.
Now we're left wondering what might happen if terrorists linked their madness to our electric power vulnerabilities.
The report acknowledged that some progress against terrorism has been made through the Department of Homeland Security and other federal, state and local institutions.
Their first study was issued before the Sept. 11 catastrophe.
Their second study was issued last year and it accused the White House and Congress of failing to take the extensive and costly steps necessary to defend against another catastrophic attack, which they said was almost certain to occur.
Now we have yet another warning.
If an attack were to occur, the report said, the so-called first responders - police and fire departments, emergency medical personnel, public works and emergency management officials - are not ready to respond effectively.
And one of the reasons is that we won't spend the money or invest the effort necessary to adequately train and equip them.
After the next attack we'll have another study to assess what went wrong.
And we won't pay attention to that study either.
