I don't think President Bush is going to war with Syria anytime soon, but I can understand why he might be tempted.
Not just because it's another terrorist-coddling, weapons-hoarding, dissident-torturing, neighbor-molesting, America-hating despotism.
Not because Mr. Bush peaked too soon in Iraq and needs another victory to carry him into 2004, or because he hopes to distract us from the con artistry of his economic policy.
No, the biggest attraction of continued war, I suspect, is that in the war on terror, offense is just a lot more exciting than defense.
The military triumph in Iraq, despite some mishaps and heartbreak, was a romp compared with the long slog to secure our own shores.
Protecting our ports, securing vulnerable chemical plants, tracking foreign visa holders, fixing our dysfunctional intelligence community, getting emergency equipment to firefighters and hospitals - there are no cakewalks on the home front.
And there is less glory.
Who would you rather be, Tommy Franks, with the most fearsome military in the history of militaries at your command, or Tom Ridge, trying to protect the world's most target-rich environment with the leftovers from the Pentagon's budget?
When history records what you did for American security, would you rather go into the books as Stormin' Norman Schwarzkopf or the transportation secretary derided by The Economist as Underperformin' Norman Mineta?
Since armies abandoned the static warfare of forts and trenches, commanders have preferred to take the initiative rather than dig in.
On offense, you get to pick the time and the battlefield.
On defense, you have to guess where the horrible surprise might arrive.
On offense in this war, you face outgunned opponents and, mostly, you kill them.
On defense you face industry lobbyists, civil libertarians, investigative gadflies, pork-barrel politicians, employee unions, campaign consultants, tort lawyers, budget police, bureaucratic red tape, the Bill of Rights and the laws of physics.
You can wage a war without deferring to allies or sharing the spoils, regardless of the wisdom of that, but the home front doesn't put up with unilateralists - except maybe Alan Greenspan.
On offense, victory may be expensive and bloody and it may give way to an ugly peace, but it is assured.
You can declare it, date it and celebrate it with a parade.
Every day without a terrorist attack is not a victory, merely a reprieve.
The doors were invented and installed on thousands of airplanes in 15 months.
That's not the three weeks it took to occupy Baghdad, but it's pretty good for government work.
The government has also made serious headway in policing the millions of shipping containers that enter the country every year.
The Bureau of Customs and Border Protection has introduced earlier screening, better scanners and radiation detectors, and especially a computerized crunching of shipping information to identify suspicious containers.
The system will never be fail-safe, but it is no longer a pushover.
For a pushover, you might consider your local chemical plant.
In this case, though, the chemical lobby has risen up to fight off mandatory safety measures, like efforts to substitute less hazardous chemicals where possible.
The Bush administration and its regulation-phobic allies on Capitol Hill have decided we can trust the industry to fix itself voluntarily.
Sure we can.
The other day Daniel Zwerdling of National Public Radio asked a homeland security official why the administration was willing to force safety on the airline industry but not on chemical makers.
The answer: because the weapon of choice on Sept. 11 was not a chemical plant.
In other words, wait until they blow up a chlorine tank.
Terror-defense aid for states and cities is likely to be spread thin by the pork-barrel imperative.
If greedy custom prevails, this means, for instance, no money to install radio signal boosters in New York high-rises so that next time, firefighters in a burning skyscraper will know what's going on.
And good luck getting the bankrupt City Council or the well-muscled real estate industry to pick up the cost.
By most accounts the single best way to defend against terrorists is to sort out our underperformin' intelligence community.
Congress thought the obvious place for it was under the Department of Homeland Security, which needs intelligence if it is to be more than the color-of-the-day department.
The administration decided, though, that the quickest, cheapest, least feather-ruffling solution was to give the job to the C.I.A., so that's where it is to be.
This effectively neuters Tom Ridge and his successors.
Well, President Bush wasn't very enthusiastic about creating a Homeland Security Department in the first place.
It is easy to find fault with the domestic war on terror, given its shortcomings and its silly excesses, too.
Hurray for cheap fun.
Let's understand, though, that making the country safe in the quagmire of democracy is really hard.
Even so, democracy is the quagmire we've got, and while the system does not jump to attention like a company of marines, it does respond to leadership of a particular kind.
It responds to persistence, patience, compromise and a willingness to set priorities.
These are the same qualities that will be required to convert the overthrow of Saddam Hussein into a genuine liberation of Iraq, and to apply our newly won credibility to the larger project of a liberated Middle East.
There are still those deluded souls who discount George Bush as a slacker and a tool of his political handlers.
Some people never learn.
It should be evident by now that he is a man of self-confidence, iron discipline and radical ambitions.
But he picks his fights, and he has not put the personal muscle into the harder aspects of domestic security that he has put into waging war or cutting taxes.
Back when Mr. Bush ran a baseball team rather than the entire free world, he was famously an offense guy.
He built the Texas Rangers a new ballpark with short distances to the fences, heaven for sluggers.
He assembled high-scoring, crowd-thrilling teams.
Boy, did those guys pound the baseball.
They just didn't win championships because when the playoffs came in October, they had no defense.
The pitching and fielding that win games in bigger stadiums had atrophied in a park built for offense.
Maybe there's a metaphor here.
