Scandal at the U.N.
The cover-up of a multibillion-dollar financial fraud known as the Iraqi oil-for-food program is beginning to come apart.
The cover-up in the office of the U.N. secretary general of a multibillion-dollar financial fraud known as the Iraqi oil-for-food program is beginning to come apart.
The scandal has been brewing for years.
Kofi Annan's right-hand man, Benon Sevan, had been named by the secretary general to head the oil-for-food program and report directly to him.
But he refused to make public what companies in what countries got Saddam's largess.
Now, thanks to evidence of systematic thievery on a huge scale, discovered by free Iraqis in Baghdad, the whole rotten mess of 10 percent kickbacks on billions in contracts is coming to light.
In detailed accounts, Susan Sachs in The Times, Therese Raphael in The Wall Street Journal, and Charles Laurence and Inigo Gilmore of London's Daily Telegraph have flipped over the flat rock of corruption.
The Journal then produced a document in Arabic that suggests Sevan received an allocation of 1.8 million barrels of oil.
Under the U.N. bureaucracy's nose - and I suspect, in some cases, with its collusion - nearly three-quarters of the suppliers jacked up their prices to pay the 10 percent kickback.
These included European manufacturers, Arab trade brokers, Russian factories and Chinese state-owned companies.
Corruption's take - out of the mouths of hungry Iraqi children - was estimated by Sachs of The Times at $2.3 billion.
Ms. Rosett, writing in National Review last week, notes that Kojo Annan, the secretary general's son, was once on staff and later a consultant to that tight-lipped company.
Under mounting pressure, this week the U.N. let it be known that its laughably titled Office of Internal Oversight Services would look into the matter.
An internal whitewash?
Not nearly good enough.
Will the Security Council appoint an independent counsel to clean house in an inept or corrupt Secretariat?
No, because France and Russia had their hands in the kickback till.
But free Iraq, backed up by the U.S., is not helpless.
Our Congress supplies 22 percent of the U.N. budget, and we have a right to an accounting.
The U.N. can redeem its sullied reputation by helping to shape Iraq's future.
To take up that challenge, it must have clean hands.
