Democrats brimmed with anger at President Bush, but backed John Kerry's call to tone down attacks on the president.
BOSTON, July 25 - Democrats gathered here Sunday for their party's nominating convention, brimming with anger at President Bush but backing John Kerry's call to tone down attacks on the president over the next four days.
Indeed, interviews with dozens of delegates suggested that confidence in Mr. Kerry's prospects for November was creating a display of discipline that was highly unusual for this famously fractious party.
As delegates gathered, Mr. Kerry interrupted a slow cross-country trip, leaving Ohio and showing up at Fenway Park for a game between the New York Yankees and the Boston Red Sox.
For all their pledges to play up the positive in their oratory, party officials said they would adopt a platform on Tuesday that will set out clear differences with Mr. Bush.
The press sometimes says, 'All this harmony - don't you want some action?'
Across Boston, delegates filled hotel lobbies and cafes along Newbury Street, lined up to greet former President Bill Clinton at a book party or headed to Fenway to watch the Red Sox battle the Yankees.
But the city, on this unseasonably cool July day, was filled with reminders of how significantly the times have changed since the nation's last nominating convention.
The streets, stripped of mailboxes and garbage cans, buzzed with helicopters.
Police and military officers were posted on virtually every street corner.
A sharpshooter with binoculars was spotted on top of the state Capitol.
The platform agreed to by Democrats, which will be adopted on Tuesday, underscored both Mr. Kerry's dominance over the party and the unity on display here.
The platform conforms with the positions Mr. Kerry has taken in this campaign, including some that are at variance with the views of many members of his party.
On Iraq, it disregards the view of Democratic voters generally and the delegates in particular that the war was a mistake and that the United States should withdraw combat troops as soon as possible.
It would retain the tax cuts adopted under President Bush for people with incomes below $200,000 but repeal the cuts for those with higher incomes.
Mr. Kerry and his supporters said they wanted to use these four days here to try to make a case for Mr. Kerry rather than attack Mr. Bush.
Speakers at the convention have been asked to tone down their attacks on the president.
Bill Richardson of New Mexico, who is chairman of the convention.
Other Democrats questioned whether Mr. Kerry should pass up four of the biggest days of his campaign without going after Mr. Bush.
Even while confident about the election ahead, Democrats here said they were looking for Mr. Kerry to make major advances with the electorate in the days ahead .
But Luis M. Diaz, a New York State assemblyman from the Bronx and a Democratic delegate, said he agreed with Mr. Kerry's approach.
And if we are unified in our desire for change, that is a good thing.
The Democratic platform, in embracing Mr. Kerry's positions, also stakes out familiar positions on domestic issues that are at odds with the Republicans'.
It favors guarding Social Security and Medicare against privatization, enacting environmental protections, making health insurance available to all and protecting abortion rights.
Adam Nagourney reported for this article from Boston, and David E. Rosenbaum from Washington.
