John Edwards will help the Democrats reconnect the party to Middle American voters.
Senator John Edwards is America's best natural politician since Bill Clinton, and he'll help with the Democrats' most crucial task: reconnecting the party to Middle American voters.
Democrats poll well on issues like the economy, but Republicans triumph on values - and for wavering Missourians, values trump issues.
His point is that working-class Americans have a strong economic interest in electing Democrats, but that cultural issues often drive them to vote Republican.
While focused on Plains states like Kansas, Mr. Frank's analysis resonates with me because the situation is much the same in my rural hometown, Yamhill, Ore.
Most Oregonians would benefit from Democratic health care and tax policies, but the national Democrats sometimes come across in Yamhill as the party of elitists who never go to church and know more about French grammar than about changing a tire.
The oddity is that President Bush manages to come across as a real guy (a triumph of marketing), while John Kerry still has the whiff of an aloof Massachusetts liberal.
This is where Mr. Edwards comes in.
If you look at the Democratic ticket through the prism of places like Yamhill, Mr. Edwards, the son of a millworker and a postal worker, appears down-to-earth and trustworthy, a fellow who strikes a chord on values as well as issues.
So the Democrats gain street credibility among blue-collar voters, and a leader who can help win back the Reagan Democrats.
Exit polls in the primaries underscored that point.
While Mr. Kerry won solidly among typical Democratic voters, Mr. Edwards had the edge among voters who described themselves as independents, as conservatives or as usually voting Republican.
Young voters also disproportionately supported Mr. Edwards, perhaps because he looks as if he'll be carded if he walks into a bar.
Is there a risk in choosing Mr. Edwards?
Sure, Mr. Kerry might drop dead.
Then we'd have a very inexperienced president - again!
Moreover, Mr. Edwards may continue to wave a protectionist cudgel at trade issues.
That will win votes because manufacturing job losses are concentrated in swing states.
But trade populism would mark a retreat from President Clinton's embrace of globalization.
Mr. Kerry and Mr. Edwards should remember that Mr. Clinton won the electorate without turning demagogic on trade.
The most interesting tug of war will be over God.
On his own, Mr. Kerry, a Catholic, didn't have a prayer with those voters.
With Mr. Edwards, a Methodist, tethering him to Middle America and beaming in a front pew each Sunday, the ticket is far stronger.
Mr. Bush lost his first political battle, for Congress in 1978, when his opponent, Kent Hance, portrayed him as an overeducated elitist carpetbagger who didn't know Texas.
Just wait: Mr. Edwards has the same populist charm as Mr. Hance, and I'd bet that Mr. Bush is about to be out-good-old-boyed again.
International attention is finally focusing on the genocide in Darfur, Sudan, but even with 10,000 people dying there each month, we haven't yet dared to call it genocide.
To meet some of the people whose lives are at stake - orphans, widows, rape victims - see the slide show of my photos that I've put at the top of www.nytimes.com/kristofresponds.
Look them in the eye and try to say this isn't genocide.
