This article was reported and written by Elisabeth Bumiller, David E. Sanger and Richard W. Stevenson.
WASHINGTON, April 13 - It was the morning of March 19 in the White House Situation Room, just hours before President Bush's 48-hour ultimatum to Saddam Hussein to get out of Iraq was to expire.
President Bush had just polled his war council for any last-minute reservations about the war plan.
But in a White House that invariably seeks to project unwavering confidence and to portray the commander in chief as always resolute, what participants in the room that morning say they remember was the anxiety.
Then the administration's warrior-turned-diplomat, Secretary of State Colin L. Powell, reached out to touch the president's hand.
It was a gesture of support, but it was born, perhaps, of an understanding that the risks ahead were beyond the president's experience.
So much rested on the answer to the question that one of Mr. Bush's top national security aides had posed a few weeks before.
Duration, they all knew, would probably determine casualties, the risk of attacks using chemical or biological weapons, the stability of the Middle East, relations with allies.
And, of course, the presidency of George W. Bush, who, some of his advisers acknowledged, was gambling his political future on a quick victory.
The past 25 days have been among the most stressful, emotional and turbulent of the second Bush White House, from the first, audacious attempt to kill Mr. Hussein to the toppling of his statue to the discovery today of seven prisoners of war.
A White House that worships order had to react to the chaos of war and a script that kept changing.
Sandstorms, unexpected resistance from the enemy and verbal grenades lobbed at the war plan by armchair generals at times forced the White House into a defensive crouch.
Although it was Mr. Bush's second war in two years, it was different in nearly every way from the first, in Afghanistan.
This war involved hundreds of thousands of American troops.
It was being fought over the objections of a vocal minority of Americans and many of the country's most steadfast allies.
It had elements of a family psychodrama, with a second President Bush completing a job left unfinished by his father - and trying to correct his father's mistakes.
But he has also shown patience in giving the plan a chance to work, much as he did in Afghanistan, and in his determination to leave battlefield tactics in the hands of his battlefield commander, General Franks.
As always, he was a creature of the routines that make his own world orderly, even as chaos streamed across the television screen.
He stuck to his rituals: first briefings by 6 a.m., war council meetings, daily exercise, regular prayer, early bedtimes, weekends at Camp David.
His travel was limited to military bases, where he could rally the troops and comfort their families, and to a trip to Northern Ireland as a payback to his most faithful foreign ally, Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain.
By this past Wednesday, as Mr. Bush stepped out of a meeting in the Oval Office with the president of Slovakia and watched on television as celebrating Iraqis dragged Mr. Hussein's statue through the streets, the war routine seemed to break.
Mr. Bush exclaimed.
By this afternoon, stepping out of his helicopter, Mr. Bush looked happier than he had in weeks.
Next week, Mr. Bush is to spend a long Easter holiday at his ranch in Texas, a sure sign that even if the war is not over, his most perilous period as commander in chief appears to be, at least for now.
The war plan that Mr. Bush approved in the situation room on the morning of March 19 remained intact for about six hours.
By early afternoon, George J. Tenet, the director of central intelligence, had learned of a stunning tip from an Iraqi spy: Mr. Hussein was very likely to be in a bunker in southern Baghdad that night.
General Franks, meanwhile, had received the same information from C.I.A. officers in the field, and ordered two F-117 stealth fighter-bombers aloft in case the president ordered a strike.
Mr. Bush listened impassively, advisers said, as the group discussed the source of the information and the risks of the operation.
For hours the group talked through the possibilities.
By 7:12 p.m., three minutes before what General Franks said was the deadline for making a decision, Mr. Bush determined it was worth the risk.
By 9:30 p.m. Washington time, the bunker had been bombed.
Some 45 minutes later, Mr. Bush addressed the nation.
At least outwardly, Mr. Bush took it all in stride.
By 10:40 p.m., he was back in the White House residence watching television with his wife, Laura.
At one point a crawl line on one of the cable news channels informed viewers that the president and first lady had gone to sleep - the it's-all-under-control spin being dispensed downstairs in the press room.
That Friday, March 21, just as his father had done on the first weekend of the first gulf war, Mr. Bush went to Camp David.
He asked Roland W. Betts, his old fraternity rush chairman from Yale and one of his closest friends, to come along.
The two spent hours that Saturday walking the trails, working out in the Camp David gym, watching the battle news on television and talking of little else but the war.
But it turned out that Mr. Bush was entering the tactical and emotional low point of the war.
He was awakened early in his cabin at Camp David that Sunday, March 22, and informed that American soldiers had apparently been captured in the Iraqi town of Nasiriya, and that one of them was a woman, Specialist Shoshana N. Johnson.
Specialist Johnson was one of the P.O.W.'s found alive today.
The president returned to the White House that afternoon as scheduled, and in his first give-and-take with reporters since the start of the war he tried to lower expectations.
But he seemed almost too emphatic, and inside the White House some aides were already concerned that the warm welcome Mr. Cheney had predicted for the troops in the south was not materializing.
By midweek, critics were beginning to question the relatively small size of the allied force in Iraq and to ask why the C.I.A. had not foreseen the fierce paramilitary resistance in the south.
Mr. Bush's aides say the president never shared those doubts, even as he was pressing them incessantly for updates.
When a reporter was visiting one top aide for 20 minutes that Tuesday, the president called twice pressing for new details.
On Wednesday, on his way to a speech at the headquarters of the United States Central Command in Tampa, Fla., Mr. Bush scratched from his remarks an assessment that the battle plan was ahead of schedule.
Instead, he changed tones.
On Thursday, Mr. Bush seemed peevish during a news conference at Camp David with Mr. Blair, whose combination of passion and artful articulation dominated the event.
At one point, Mr. Bush was reduced to standing by silently as Mr. Blair made an ardent speech about the success of the war.
By Friday, explosive comments made in Iraq by the commander of the Army forces in the Persian Gulf, Lt. Gen. William S. Wallace, were all over the front pages of the newspapers.
The White House went into public relations attack mode.
The president's point, aides said, was that he was not going to micromanage the war the way Lyndon B. Johnson had during Vietnam - and he was not going to bow to pressure to rewrite the plan every time it hit a bump.
Then he headed for Camp David.
By Monday, Mr. Bush was fighting back.
The next day, the turnaround began.
Jessica D. Lynch had been safely rescued from a hospital in Nasiriya.
The news of the rescue saturated coverage the next day, and was treated at the White House as a harbinger that the terms of the conflict were in flux.
The following day, April 3, American troops seized parts of Baghdad's international airport, an enormous strategic and psychological victory, putting the forces within sight of the capital.
The rapid progress inspired a buoyant mood.
He also met privately with the families of some of the marines who had died, hearing their stories, going through family pictures, talking to children whose fathers would never return.
The next day, troops from the Army's Third Infantry Division were in control of the airport as Mr. Bush met in the Roosevelt Room with a dozen Iraqi exiles eager for a financial and political stake in a new Baghdad.
But before leaving the room, he turned to the group and, unasked, gave what the visitors took to be a reference to when he thought the war would be over.
The start of the war suspended several debates within the White House, notably the one between Mr. Powell and the administration's hawks over how to disarm Iraq without wreaking more harm than necessary on America's strained alliances.
But quickly, a new argument took its place.
But in the first week of April Mr. Rumsfeld reopened the issue, writing a letter to Mr. Bush saying that he wanted to fly the exiles into the country and give them control of the south.
That would give Pentagon favorites, including Ahmad Chalabi, the head of the Iraqi National Congress, a huge advantage in the eventual leadership of the country.
Mr. Powell was alarmed.
The C.I.A., also suspicious of the exiles, had similar concerns, though it had ways - including money and advice on the ground in Iraq - to help its favorites.
The revelation of the Rumsfeld letter forced Ms. Rice to come into the White House press room on April 4 to describe what the new government would look like.
No sooner had she done so, though, than Mr. Chalabi was flown to southern Iraq with a group of lightly armed supporters, to the surprise of American diplomats.
Meanwhile, a parallel fight broke out over how to describe the role of the United Nations.
Yet Mr. Blair needed to show that he had a firm hand on the process.
In some important ways, Mr. Bush's conduct of the war over its first three weeks was about trying to correct mistakes made by his father during and after the first gulf war.
On the afternoon after the first strike against Mr. Hussein, Mr. Bush convened a cabinet meeting to set out the plan for the early stages of the warand to keep his domestic agenda alive.
He warned against focusing so much on the war that issues like education, Medicare and above all the economy got lost or forgotten.
It has become a political cliché to say the current president is obsessed with avoiding the fate of his father, who was turned out of office after one term in part because he was perceived as ignoring the economy.
But the story's familiarity does not make it any less compelling to this White House.
Throughout the war, the administration has not only tracked the economic fallout closely but has also tried to keep up the pressure on Congress to pass the centerpiece of Mr. Bush's economic plan, his $726 billion tax cut proposal.
But with Mr. Bush consumed by the conflict in Iraq and Democrats hanging together despite pressure from the White House not to buck a wartime president, the administration lost a big round in Congress.
It failed, for now at least, to stop the Senate from cutting his tax cut to $350 billion.
As he has tried to avoid the economic political trap, Mr. Bush has also openly distanced himself from his father's decision not to push harder for Mr. Hussein's overthrow after the 1991 gulf war.
The president has shown a more hawkish, unilateralist tendency than his father ever did: the elder Bush wanted to restore world order, while the younger Bush wants to reorder the world.
The second Bush administration, he implied, could be trusted by the people of Iraq to finish the job in a way the first one could not be.
Even this afternoon Mr. Bush could not help reminding reporters that Iraq will not be rebuilt in a day.
He created conditions of fear and hatred.
