Howard Dean's squeal heard round the world was over the top, but President Bush's address took his swaggering sheriff routine to new heights.
That was quite the steroid-infused performance.
Who's the guy's political consultant - Russell Crowe?
He was so in-your-face, smirking his trademark smirk, it was disturbing to think of him in charge of the military.
It's a good thing he stopped drinking and started talking about God.
You wonder how many votes he scared off with that testosterone festival: the taunting message, the self-righteous geographic litany of support?
The Philippines.
The Netherlands.
El Salvador.
Can you believe President Bush is still pushing the cockamamie claim that we went to war in Iraq with a real coalition rather than a gaggle of poodles and lackeys?
His State of the Union address took his swaggering sheriff routine to new heights.
Translation: Hey, we don't need no stinking piece of paper to bring it on in other countries.
If it feels good, we'll do it, and we'll decide later why we did it. You lookin' at me?
Sure, Howard Dean was also over the top when he uttered the squeal heard round the world.
Let me tell you something.
Once Michael Dukakis got in trouble when he failed to get angry when asked how he would react if his wife were raped and murdered.
But Republicans were thrilled when Mr. Bush strutted up onstage on Tuesday night to basically tell the country that if you don't vote for him in November, you're giving up in the war on terrorism.
Dr. Dean's poll numbers are diving because people freezing in New Hampshire think he's too hot.
President Bush and Vice President Dick Cheney are better at looking cool.
But their dissing the U.N. - that palace of permission slips - and their doctrine of pre-emption are just as hot, and so was Mr. Bush's cocky implicit defense of the idea that if you whack one Middle East dictator, the rest will fall in line.
Maybe he's right, but what about Bill Clinton's line that unless we want to occupy every country in the world, maybe our policy should also concentrate on making friends instead of targets?
For proof of how intemperate their policy has been, compare this year's State of the Union with last year's.
Last year it was all about Iraq's frightening weapons.
What is a program activity?
Where is the White House speechwriters' ombudsman?
