Is Condi Gaslighting Rummy?
The administration that never let you see it sweat is sweating, as two of its control freaks openly tug over control.
It's easy to see why the Bush crowd is getting so tetchy.
The itch to ditch officials who fritter away the public trust is growing, as Arnold and his broom bear down on Sacramento.
And we know now that our first pre-emptive war was launched basically because Iraq had .
Just about the scariest thing the weapons hunter David Kay could come up with was a vial of live botulinum, hidden in the home of an Iraqi biological weapons scientist.
This has very dire implications for Beverly Hills and the East Side of Manhattan, areas awash in vials of Botox, the botulinum toxin that can either be turned into a deadly biological weapon or a pricey wrinkle smoother.
It doesn't help to have a former-NATO-commander-turned-presidential-contender running around telling the country that the Bush dream team is a bunch of dunces.
Or a former-diplomat-turned-angry-husband-of-an-outed-spy running around telling the country that the Bush dream team is a bunch of backstabbing lawbreakers who are dead wrong on Iraq.
The president's foreign policy duenna and his grumpy grampy over at the Pentagon are suddenly mud wrestling.
Women who are discouraged at the ascension of Conan the Barbarian in Cal-ee-fornia can take heart.
In this delicious gender-bender, Condoleezza Rice triumphs as the macho infighter, driving Rummy into a diva-like meltdown.
Condi used a trick she learned from Rummy: pre-emption.
She outflanked the famous Washington infighter by talking about the new alignment to The New York Times before he had a chance to object.
President Bush clearly realizes that Mr. Rumsfeld and Paul Wolfowitz have gotten him into a fine mess.
He wants his trusted Mother Hen, as he calls Condi, the woman who probably spends as much time with him as Laura - weekends at Camp David, vacations at the ranch, workouts at the gym - to make it all better.
This will be the first time Ms. Rice, a Soviet expert who has functioned mostly so far as First Chum, will have her reputation on the line.
Some Republicans worry that it's risky to move accountability for postwar Iraq closer to the Oval Office because then there's no one else to blame.
Isn't that clear?
Maybe Rummy hasn't brushed up lately on the Washington rulebook he wrote in the 1970's - after his stints as President Gerald Ford's chief of staff and secretary of defense.
