Heartening as it was to see Russians voting freely on Sunday, the dominant impression is that Russia's democracy is a long way from any Western model.
An election is a good time to assess a country's progress toward democracy.
Heartening as it was to see Russians voting freely on Sunday to fill all 450 seats of the Duma, the lower house of the Russian Parliament, the dominant impression is that Russia's democracy is a long way from any Western model.
In some worrisome ways, it is moving farther away.
The horrendous terror bombing in southern Russia on Friday cast a shadow over the elections.
It seemed likely to produce more votes for President Vladimir Putin's supporters, as Russians rallied in anger behind their leader's unyielding stance toward Chechen rebels, who were blamed for the blast.
Early results showed that Mr. Putin's party had more than double the votes of any other party.
Today there are 23 parties and lots of furious campaigning.
Despite the Kremlin's control over national television, newspapers and Web sites provide lively commentary and criticism.
All the candidates, including the Communists, profess fealty to democracy.
But with the exception of that self-same Communist Party, the contenders are not really national political parties, but a confusing array of factions and individuals.
And then there is United Russia, which presents itself as something other than what it really is - Mr. Putin's party - since official myth holds that the president is above base politics.
More troubling is that so many of the candidates are the new rich, leaving the distinct air of tycoons and oligarchs brazenly buying access to power - or to more wealth.
Nothing illustrates this more succinctly than the fact that 28 percent of the Communist candidates are millionaires.
When a comrade complained about this invasion of capitalists, he was expelled.
This phenomenon is also apparently an integral part of the convoluted saga of the giant Yukos oil company, whose former chairman, Mikhail Khodorkovsky, is in jail, and whose merger with another oil giant, Sibneft, is now in jeopardy.
What evidently drew Mr. Putin's wrath was that Mr. Khodorkovsky not only made lavish donations to many candidates and parties - even the Communists and Mr. Putin's United Russia - but he also put Yukos officials on the slates of several parties.
It is not democracy yet, but at least the arbiter remains the ballot box.
It may take many more years for the Russians - voters, politicians, parties and oligarchs alike - to get a handle on the process, and to learn to treat it with more respect.
The way to begin would be for Mr. Putin to promptly end his destructive feud with Mr. Khodorkovsky and to devise legal ways to close the market in Duma seats.
Above all, they must all ensure that even an imperfect election is not the last.
