Who's Unpatriotic Now?
By cooking intelligence to promote a war that wasn't urgent, the administration has squandered our military strength.
The skepticism of these officials has been vindicated.
So have the concerns expressed before the war by military professionals like Gen. Eric Shinseki, the Army chief of staff, about the resources required for postwar occupation.
But as the bad news comes in, those who promoted this war have responded with a concerted effort to smear the messengers.
Issues of principle aside, the invasion of a country that hadn't attacked us and didn't pose an imminent threat has seriously weakened our military position.
Of the Army's 33 combat brigades, 16 are in Iraq; this leaves us ill prepared to cope with genuine threats.
And the war will have devastating effects on future recruiting by the reserves.
To top it all off, our insistence on launching a war without U.N. approval has deprived us of useful allies.
How serious is the strain on our military?
But instead of explaining what happened to the Al Qaeda link and the nuclear program, in the last few days a series of hawkish pundits have accused those who ask such questions of aiding the enemy.
He can only be gratified by the feeding frenzy of recriminations, second-guessing and political power plays.
Signs of declining popular appreciation of the legitimacy and necessity of the efforts of America's armed forces will erode their morale.
Well, if we're going to talk about aiding the enemy: By cooking intelligence to promote a war that wasn't urgent, the administration has squandered our military strength.
This provides a lot of aid and comfort to Osama bin Laden - who really did attack America - and Kim Jong Il - who really is building nukes.
And while we're on the subject of patriotism, let's talk about the affair of Joseph Wilson's wife.
Since then administration allies have sought to discredit him - it's unpleasant stuff.
Think about that: if their characterization of Mr. Wilson's wife is true (he refuses to confirm or deny it), Bush administration officials have exposed the identity of a covert operative.
That happens to be a criminal act; it's also definitely unpatriotic.
So why would they do such a thing?
Partly, perhaps, to punish Mr. Wilson, but also to send a message.
And that should alarm us.
We've just seen how politicized, cooked intelligence can damage our national interest.
Yet the Wilson affair suggests that the administration intends to continue pressuring analysts to tell it what it wants to hear.
