Recovery in Iraq cannot really begin until the country is secure, but getting there may not be as simple as it sounds.
It's easy to criticize the Bush administration for its foolishness in invading Iraq, at a cost so far of 400 American lives and (one study suggests) at least 11,000 Iraqi lives.
But it's much harder to figure out what to do next.
And while the administration's new approach is risky, weakens our control and may result in less democracy than the U.S. had hoped, it is probably the best of a bunch of bad options.
Democrats are having a field day pointing out the problems, but their suggestions for what to do next are pretty unhelpful.
Most Democrats want to hand over more power to the United Nations and bring in NATO troops, and while those steps would help, they certainly don't amount to a solution to the mess.
And if we can't get NATO countries to secure Afghanistan, why would it be easier in Iraq - particularly now that guerrillas have displayed their multiculturalism by blowing up 19 Italians?
Ah, yes, the cheery warmth of our staunch pro-American friends, the Italians and the British.
I've asked two Democratic presidential candidates, Richard Gephardt and another who spoke off the record, if it's really credible to offer the U.N. and NATO as a solution to Iraq.
Meanwhile, the administration is overselling the benefits of the Iraqification of security.
Sure, it will help to have more Iraqi policemen and troops: Iraqi guerrillas who lay down roadside mines have been known to scrawl a warning on the street in Arabic.
Thus American troops hurtle blindly into danger.
The problem is that while the administration boasts that 130,000 Iraqis have been incorporated into the security forces, most have trained for a few weeks or less (in some cases, for just one day).
Relying too quickly on these Iraqis for security as we draw down our own troops will simply be a replay of Afghanistan: a slide into chaos.
Security is paramount.
Iraq's economy can't revive until there's security.
And the half of the population that is female is arguably worse off now than under Saddam, until security improves.
As one U.N. official told me, Iraqi women were once raped by Qusay and Uday, Saddam's sons; now they are raped by everybody else.
Fewer women are in the labor force than under Saddam because now they don't dare leave their homes.
A new report by the U.N. Population Fund offers a devastating portrait of the plight of Iraqi women since the war.
Contraceptive use has fallen because of supply breakdowns, unsafe abortions are increasing, sexual abductions are on the rise, and a combination of poor security and hospital looting has left many women without access to medical care.
Let me suggest three steps that are worth taking.
First, bring back regular Iraqi Army units to bolster security.
Second, be more attentive to nationalism - that means we should avoid privatization (even though it's a good idea) because Iraqis will suspect us of stealing their assets.
Third, resist the temptation to anoint Ahmad Chalabi, who is resented by ordinary Iraqis as our puppet.
The bottom line, though, is that neither Republicans nor Democrats are being straight with the public: now that Mr. Bush has gotten us into this mess, there's no simple way out.
We need a name for this war.
So send in your entries by mail or e-mail.
I'll report the top five suggestions and give those writers Iraqi 250-dinar notes with Saddam's portrait.
