The president's credibility is suffering because his rosy economic scenarios are at odds with real-life.
One of the main reasons for the decline in President Bush's credibility is the disconnect between the rosy economic scenarios his administration keeps touting and the much more dismal real-life experience of millions of American families.
The president needs to get out more.
He could visit the working men and women across the state of South Carolina who have watched the factories and the mills close and their jobs vanish like lights in a blackout.
He could chat with the people lining up at soup kitchens and food pantries from Harlem to Oklahoma and beyond.
He could take a tour of the Pacific Northwest or Silicon Valley, listening to families that have been devastated by the information technology bust and the outsourcing of high-tech jobs.
She was outdone in tone-deafness just a few days later by N. Gregory Mankiw, chairman of the president's Council of Economic Advisers, who gave a thumbs up to outsourcing, including the outsourcing of skilled higher-wage jobs.
After an outcry from Republican politicians - including the speaker of the House, Dennis Hastert - who have been hearing from constituents filled with anxiety about employment, a chastened Mr. Mankiw beat a very public retreat.
No amount of political mumbo jumbo can change the fact that the employment situation in the U.S. is grim, and the public is growing weary of the administration's repeated promises that boatloads of jobs are just around the corner.
This recovery has been the weakest on record in terms of job growth.
The Economic Policy Institute has found, counterintuitively, that upscale workers have been among those especially hard hit, particularly in the area of long-term unemployment.
The simple truth is that the Bush administration has been wrong, wrong, wrong in its job creation projections, and that pattern appears to be continuing.
Back when it was hyping its tax cut plan, the administration predicted that 5.5 million jobs would be created in the 18 months from July 2003 to the end of this year.
The study noted that in the first seven months of that period, only 296,000 jobs have been created - just 5 percent of the administration's projection.
Working Americans are caught in a terrific squeeze.
Jobs are not being created in substantial numbers.
The slow pace of job growth has dampened wage growth.
Millions of Americans are underemployed, working at jobs for which they are overqualified, or working part time because they can't find full-time work, and so forth.
Benefits are being scaled back.
And the shipment of upscale jobs overseas is expected to accelerate.
This is all happening in an expansion.
What can we expect from the next recession?
The president is in serious political trouble in large part because he has not come up with any credible proposals for dealing with these issues, which go to the very heart of the American way of life.
