Wes Clark, the four-star general that Bill Clinton fired during the Kosovo liberation, has now been surrounded by the Clinton-Gore mafia.
The Clintons decided that the Democratic primary campaign was getting out of hand.
Howard Dean was getting all the buzz and too much of the passionate left's money.
Word was out that Dean as nominee, owing Clintonites nothing, would quickly dump Terry McAuliffe, through whom Bill and Hillary maintain control of the Democratic National Committee.
Meanwhile, the four-star general that Clinton fired for being a publicity hog during the Kosovo liberation has been surrounded by the Clinton-Gore mafia.
Lead agent is Mark Fabiani, the impeachment spinmeister; he brought in the rest of the Restoration coterie.
When reporters start poking into any defense contracts Clark arranged for clients after his retirement, he will have the lip-zipping services of the Clinton confidant Bruce Lindsey.
As expected, fickle media that had been entranced with Dean (Dr. Lose-the-War) dropped the cranky Vermonter like a cold couch potato and are lionizing Clinton's fellow Arkansan and fellow Rhodes Scholar.
He's new, handsome, intellectual, a genuine Silver Star Vietnam hero and taught economics at West Point.
I admired Nato Commander Clark's military aggressiveness when the Serbs were slaughtering civilians in Kosovo.
He wanted to use Apache helicopter gunships and send in NATO troops, as John McCain urged, but Clinton sided with Pentagon brass fearful of U.S. casualties, and the lengthy air campaign was conducted from 15,000 feet up; thousands of Kosovars died.
As a boot-in-mouth politician, however, Clark ranks with Arnold Schwarzenegger.
He put himself in the hot-pretzel position - softly twisted.
Let's assume the Clinton handlers teach him the rudiments of verbal discipline and the Clinton fund-raising machine makes him a viable candidate.
To what end?
What's in it for the Clintons?
First, control of the Democratic Party machinery, threatened by the sudden emergence of Dean and his antiestablishment troops.
Second, control of the Democratic ideological position, making sure it remains on the respectable left of center.
What if, as Christmas nears, the economy should tank and President Bush becomes far more vulnerable?
Hillary would have to announce willingness to accept a draft.
Otherwise, should the maverick Dean take the nomination and win, Clinton dreams of a Restoration die.
Here is where the politically inexperienced Clark comes in.
He is the Clintons' most attractive stalking horse, useful in stopping Dean and diluting support for Kerry, Lieberman or Gephardt.
If Bush stumbles and the Democratic nomination becomes highly valuable, the Clintons probably think they would be able to get Clark to step aside without splintering the party, rewarding his loyalty with second place on the ticket.
G'wan, you say, the Clintons should be supporting Dean, a likely loser to Bush, thereby ensuring the Clinton Restoration in 2008.
But plainly they are not.
Their candidate is Clark.
Which is more like the Clintons?
