There's been some good political news out of Iraq in recent days.
The newly installed - and now U.N.-blessed - Iraqi government is made up of some really decent people.
There is hope.
But it will not be realized if the sort of incident that happened last weekend keeps being repeated.
Two American and two Polish employees of Blackwater USA, a security contractor, were killed in an ambush on the main road from Baghdad airport to downtown Baghdad.
We shouldn't have laughed.
A year later, we still do not fully control the main road from Baghdad airport to Baghdad.
You can't build anything under those conditions.
It is hard to know whether to laugh or cry when you hear President Bush comparing D-Day to the U.S. invasion of Iraq and the war on terrorism.
If President Franklin Roosevelt had thrown the meager manpower resources into D-Day that George Bush threw into Iraq a year ago, France would be a German-speaking country today.
Alas, it is too late now to send a lot more U.S. troops, if we had them.
We are up against some really evil, cynical forces: die-hard Baathists, Qaeda-inspired Islamists and criminals.
They continue to kill large numbers of innocent Iraqis without ever spelling out a political demand.
That's because their only interest is that America fail.
They have no coherent vision for Iraq.
Their only vision is that America must fail.
Because if the U.S. succeeds in tilting Iraq onto a more progressive track, Baathism and Islamism will be diminished everywhere.
There is nothing more difficult to fight than an enemy whose only interest is that you fail and who has no interest in building a positive alternative.
That kind of enemy can only be overwhelmed and crushed.
But the D-Day solution for Iraq is not for America to throw all its troops into Iraq.
As I said, it's too late for that.
It is for America to throw all its resources into getting Iraqi soldiers trained and able to take on their own opposition.
Only Iraqis will find out who their bad guys are and have the legitimacy to defeat them.
How close are we to that?
Moreover, he said, the first battalion of Iraqi internal security forces, trained for urban warfare, will be deployed in Baghdad.
If the training stays on schedule, says General Petraeus, a critical mass of trained Iraqi Army, civil defense and police forces should be up and running by January, in time for elections.
That is what needs to happen.
Bombs are going to go off every day, but what we need to do is somehow keep looking to the longer term and focus on building the new Iraq.
We just need to keep our heads down, be patient and keep driving on.
That's what this D-Day looks like.
It is not a single charge up a Normandy beach, but a long, hard slog to train an Iraqi Army to finish the war that we started.
This is the Iraqis' real war of independence.
If they beat back the bad guys and hold elections, they'll be free of us and the worst of their past. If they don't or can't, this will be our Waterloo, and theirs.
