Despite threats to registration centers and candidates, over 10 million Afghans have registered to vote in this week's election.
Washington - Let's not be taken in when defeatists try to pooh-pooh the promise of this week's election in Afghanistan.
Already the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe - more insecure and uncooperative than usual - has announced that it will refuse to declare this coming election to be free and fair.
Too much world media coverage will focus on pictures of violence at polling places, not on the big news: lines of courageous Afghans patiently waiting to vote.
Tinhorn despots are passing out leaflets in refugee camps promising divine rewards to anyone who kills a poll worker.
Another reason to downplay or dismiss Election Day in Afghanistan is that it is clearly good news for America and its allies, who are directly responsible for this outbreak of freedom in a Muslim land.
Afghanistan would be the first good domino to tip over.
When the Afghan president Hamid Karzai visited here a few months ago, he told us of his hopes to persuade some 7 million of the 10 million eligible Afghan voters to register.
That's a political miracle.
But the indisputable fact of the enthusiasm for voting is what is so heartening.
Afghans look with wonderment at their secret ballot, and take real risks for the freedom Americans take for granted.
Who's ahead?
Karzai is the front-runner in a field of 18, but will face a runoff if he falls short of 50 percent of the vote.
Yunus Qanooni is the dark horse.
I asked Karzai during his visit here about his country's warlord problem; would these local satraps with their private militas, and corrupted by opium profits, take direction from the elected central government in Kabul?
But what about the likes of Gen. Abdul Rashid Dostum, the Uzbek strongman who has been exercising his newfound right of free speech to blaze away at the government for not ensuring security or getting money for reconstruction?
Karzai smiled.
Afghans, fighting their unaccustomed way to the polls through feudal fundamentalists and Arab terrorists, will be the most closely watched.
But Australians also vote this weekend.
Prime Minister John Howard has reaffirmed the traditional Australian-American alliance; he is opposed in the elections by Labor's Mark Latham, the bring-the-boys-home-from-Iraq-by-Christmas candidate.
Then come the U.S. elections, about which you heard plenty last night.
Finally, Iraqi elections are scheduled for January.
These will be influenced by the Afghan electoral example, and by the Australian decision signaling the breadth of future coalition support.
