President Bush's paramount problem with his National Guard years is not that he took shortcuts in 1972.
The problem is that he still refuses to come clean about it.
So as we get caught up in the furor over the CBS documents showing favoritism in President Bush's National Guard career, let's bear a couple of points in mind.
First, there's reason to be suspicious of some of those CBS documents.
For starters, a Guard veteran who worked with the supposed author, Lt. Col. Jerry Killian, tells me that abbreviations in the documents are wrong.
Second, we shouldn't be distracted by our doubts about the CBS documents.
There's no doubt that Mr. Bush benefited from favoritism.
The speaker of the Texas House has acknowledged making the call to get Mr. Bush into the National Guard.
Does any of this matter?
What troubles me is less Mr. Bush's advantage three decades ago and more his denial today.
Mr. Bush's own route to avoid the draft underscores the disparities in America, yet his policies seem based on a kind of social Darwinism in which the successful make their own opportunities.
His tax cuts and entire outlook seem rooted in ideas not of noblesse oblige, but of noblesse entitlement.
One fall day in 1973, when Mr. Bush was a new student at Harvard Business School, he was wearing a Guard jacket when he ran into one of his professors.
The professor, Yoshi Tsurumi, says he asked Mr. Bush how he wangled a spot in the Guard.
Professor Tsurumi says he next asked Mr. Bush how he could have already finished his National Guard commitment.
So in this muddle of competing witnesses and suspect documents, what do we actually know about Mr. Bush and the Air National Guard?
It's pretty clear that Mr. Bush got into the Guard because of his name but did a fine job in his first few years.
Then, in 1972, something went badly wrong.
My hunch is that Mr. Bush went through personal difficulties that he's embarrassed to talk about today.
In addition, Mr. Roome suggests that changes at the Texas air base were making it more difficult for junior pilots, so sometimes Mr. Bush's only chance to fly was as a target for student pilots - not the most thrilling duty.
For whatever reason, Mr. Bush's performance ratings deteriorated, he skipped his flight physical, he stopped flying military planes forever, he transferred to Alabama, and he did not report to certain drills there as ordered.
The pilots I interviewed who were in Alabama then are pretty sure that Mr. Bush was a no-show at required drills.
The next year Mr. Bush skipped off to Harvard Business School.
He still had almost another year in the Guard he had promised to serve, but he drifted away, after taxpayers had spent $1 million training him, and he never entirely fulfilled his obligations.
More than three decades later, that shouldn't be a big deal.
What worries me more is the lack of honesty today about that past - and the way Mr. Bush is hurling stones without the self-awareness to realize that he's living in a glass house.
