The only time I saw Iraqi men entirely intimidated by the American-British forces was in Basra, when a cluster of men gaped, awestruck, around an example of the most astoundingly modern weapon in the Western arsenal.
Her name was Claire, and she had a machine gun in her arms and a flower in her helmet.
The Iraqis flinched.
In the aftermath of the Iraq war it's time to re-examine the ban on women in American front-line forces.
Women are barred from about 30 percent of active-duty positions, and there's still a deep emotional resistance to exposing American women to deadly violence.
Granted, the sight of a female P.O.W. on television sent a frisson down the American spine, and there is such discomfort with women in body bags that maybe it can't be countered with practical arguments.
But let me try.
Based on the performance of women in Iraq and Afghanistan, I see three advantages to allowing women even on the front.
First, particularly in the Muslim world, notions of chivalry make even the most bloodthirsty fighters squeamish about shooting female soldiers or blowing them up at checkpoints.
For just that reason, I asked a woman to sit beside me in the front seat while I drove on a dicey highway in Iraq on the theory that befuddled snipers would hesitate to fire.
Let's let foreign chauvinism work for us.
Second, wars these days are less for territory than for hearts and minds, and coed military units appear less menacing.
The British used female soldiers near Basra in this way to convey the idea that they weren't set on raping and pillaging.
Third, military units need women to search female civilians for weapons.
Critics of having women in the Army say that sending moms to war disrupts families (more than sending dads) and that female captives are particularly likely to be raped.
Both arguments have some truth to them.
But by similar logic one could prohibit women from working in risky neighborhoods or late at night.
Call me postmodern, but I side with Rhonda Cornum, who, as an Army colonel, was sexually molested while a P.O.W. in the first gulf war - and who has argued that women should be allowed in combat.
When her helicopter was shot down in 1991, several colleagues were killed.
She was shot and suffered two broken arms, and she was captured.
While female P.O.W.'s may be more at risk of sexual abuse, experience in Iraq suggests that they may also be more likely to inspire sympathy.
An Iraqi doctor felt so sorry for Jessica Lynch that he risked his life to help rescue her, and that probably wouldn't have happened if she'd been a big, hairy, smelly Marine.
Of course, there are legitimate concerns.
Women tend to be physically weaker and can have trouble lugging heavy gear, or heavy comrades.
Moreover, most discussions are too delicate to mention it, but anyone who has spent time in a war zone knows about the Privy Principle.
Try relieving yourself when minefields make it impossible to step more than a few yards from everyone else.
Still, female correspondents and photographers are everywhere in war zones and demonstrate that the barriers are mostly just in our own minds.
Moreover, one of the reasons we go to war is to uphold values - like equality for all. We transmit that message every time our troops encounter foreigners, particularly when our soldiers have flowers in their helmets and names like Claire.
