In the end, it was a real debate: sharp and scrappy, just what the nation seemed to yearn for during a wartime election campaign.
In the end, it was a real debate: sharp, scrappy and defining, just what the nation seemed to be yearning for during a wartime election campaign.
He was cool, respectful, rational in offering a detailed brief that Mr. Bush had embarked on a diversion from the war on Al Qaeda and global terror by invading Iraq, and his answers never exceeded the time limits.
By the time the debate ended, Mr. Kerry appeared to have accomplished his primary goal for the evening: establishing himself as a plausible commander in chief.
Mr. Bush, who seemed defensive and less sure of himself at the outset, quickly gained his footing, counterpunching effectively by repeatedly charging that Mr. Kerry was inconsistent and lacked the resolve to defend the nation against terrorism.
The two agreed that the threat of unconventional weapons in the hands of rogue actors would be the biggest challenge facing either of them as president, and that Mr. Hussein had seemed to pose such a threat.
They agreed that the United States could not pull out of Iraq precipitately.
But they disagreed on virtually all else, from how to handle what both called genocide in Sudan to nuclear proliferation in North Korea and Iran.
Which is worse?
I believe that when you know something's going wrong, you make it right.
That's what I learned in Vietnam.
When I came back from that war, I saw that it was wrong.
Some people don't like the fact that I stood up to say so.
But I did.
And that's what I did with that vote.
Mr. Bush was just as blunt in his insistence that Mr. Kerry's criticism of the conduct of the war had demoralized the troops and the interim Iraqi leaders struggling to impose some stability on that country.
As the challenger, Mr. Kerry had the greater burden, and his performance was more disciplined and controlled than usual.
He may well have struck undecided voters as not much like the Republicans' worst caricatures.
He spoke plainly, politely, but did not shrink from direct and pointed criticism of Mr. Bush's policies.
Mr. Kerry did not explain how he would secure international help, beyond calling an international conference, and by not being Mr. Bush.
Mr. Bush's response was skeptical.
Join us for a war that is the wrong war at the wrong place at the wrong time?
I know how these people think.
I deal with them all the time.
I sit down with world leaders frequently, and talk to them on the phone frequently.
The more immediate question is whether voters will continue to follow a president who insists the war was right, in the face of polls suggesting widespread doubt about whether it was worth the cost.
Mr. Bush is banking almost everything on his belief that they will, as long as they believe he is clear and resolute.
